add explorer docs (#37)
calimero-is-near/docs: docs/getting_started/explorer.md

---
title: Explorer
sidebar_position: 6
---

> From your  Calimero [Console](https://app.calimero.network/dashboard) you can access the explorer which provides you with the ability to view all crypto transactions and information including: accounts, blocks, transactions and receipts, Fungible Tokens and Non-Fungible Tokens in details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From your  Calimero [Console](https://app.calimero.network/explorer/dashboard) you can access the explorer which provides you with the ability to view all crypto transactions and information including: accounts, blocks, transactions and receipts, Fungible Tokens and Non-Fungible Tokens in details. 
```

> From your  Calimero [Console](https://app.calimero.network/dashboard) you can access the explorer which provides you with the ability to view all crypto transactions and information including: accounts, blocks, transactions and receipts, Fungible Tokens and Non-Fungible Tokens in details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From your  Calimero [Console](https://app.calimero.network/dashboard) you can access the explorer which provides you with the ability to view all blockchain transactions and information including: accounts, blocks, transactions and receipts, Fungible Tokens and Non-Fungible Tokens in details. 
```
Maybe blockchain is better than crypto here

> It is by default a fully private explorer only available to the administrators of the network, but specific information can be shared via API endpoints or shared links through the permissions management service implemented inside the Console.

Reviewer: Not only to administrators, but to everybody with access to the console and the shard.

![](../../static/img/explorer.png)

## Account

> Accounts store digital assets, maintain balances, and track transactions.

Reviewer: Maybe mention that they are NEAR accounts and link to their docs?

![](../../static/img/demo_account.png)

By clicking on any of the account ID, you'll be able to have an overview of:

- The number of transactions occured on that account
- The amount of storage used
- The native account balance currently on the account

> - The amount of validator stake used

Reviewer: Check out the description of validator stake on NEAR explorer ([link](https://explorer.testnet.near.org/accounts/calimero.testnet))

> - The transactio hash details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The transaction hash details
```

- The total amount of fungible tokens the account has
-  The total amount of non fungible tokens the account has

![](../../static/img/account_details.png)

## Blocks

> The blocks serve as a record of transactions and other network activity. Each block in the private shard contains a unique cryptographic hash of the previous block in the chain, which creates a secure and tamper-proof record of all network activity. As new transactions are submitted to the network, they are validated by the network's validators and added to a new block in the chain. Once the block is validated, it is added to the private shard and becomes part of the network's transaction history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blocks serve as a record of transactions and other network activity. Each block in the private shard contains a unique cryptographic hash of the previous block in the chain, which creates a secure and tamper-proof record of all network activity. As new transactions are submitted to the network, they are validated by the network's validators and added to a new block in the chain. Once the block is validated, it is added to the private shard and becomes part of the network's transaction history.
```

> The blocks serve as a record of transactions and other network activity. Each block in the private shard contains a unique cryptographic hash of the previous block in the chain, which creates a secure and tamper-proof record of all network activity. As new transactions are submitted to the network, they are validated by the network's validators and added to a new block in the chain. Once the block is validated, it is added to the private shard and becomes part of the network's transaction history.

Reviewer: ```
... and other network activity.
```
Such as? @chefsale help

![](../../static/img/blocks.png)

By clicking on any of the blocks, you'll be able to have an overview of:

> - The date the transactions occured
> - The account author of transaction
> - The status of the transaction
> - The block and parent hash
> - The transaction amount
> - The receipt of the transaction
> - The gas used for the transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- date the transactions occured
- account author of transaction
- status of the transaction
- block and parent hash
- transaction amount
- receipt of the transaction
- gas used for the transaction
```
lose the `the`.

Reviewer: Also, I think plural would fit better with the sentence.
`...an overview of dates the transactions occurred, account authors of transactions, ...`

Reviewer: Account author sounds a bit awkward, see if it can be phrased differently

![](../../static/img/blocks_overview.png)

## Transactions

> Transactions provides data and insights into transaction activities, your method call from one account to the other, transaction hash, transaction status, related to network activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions page provides data and insights into transaction activities, your method call from one account to the other, transaction hash, transaction status, related to network activity.
```

> Transactions provides data and insights into transaction activities, your method call from one account to the other, transaction hash, transaction status, related to network activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions provides data and insights into transaction activities, method calls from one account to the other, transaction hash, transaction status, related to network activity.
```

> Transactions provides data and insights into transaction activities, your method call from one account to the other, transaction hash, transaction status, related to network activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions provides data and insights into transaction activities, your method call from one account to the other, transaction hash, transaction status.
```
What is this last part anyway?

![](../../static/img/transaction.png)

> By clicking on any of the blocks, you'll be able to have an overview of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By clicking on any of the transactions, you'll have an overview of:
```

> - The Tx hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- transaction hash
```

- The status of the transaction
- The date the transaction was created
- The account it was sent from
- The account that received the transaction
- The block height
- The block hash
- The deposit value
- The transaction fee

> - The amount of the attached gas used

Reviewer: lose the `the`. It's repetitive and unnecessary.

![](../../static/img/transaction_overview.png)

## Fungible tokens

> FT tokens are digital assets that can be transferred between accounts on the network and can be used as a form of currency or to represent other digital or physical assets. The fungible token shows data on the total ft transfers in your shard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FT tokens are digital assets that can be transferred between accounts on the network and can be used as a form of currency or to represent other digital or physical assets. The fungible token page shows data on the total ft transfers in your shard. 
```

> FT tokens are digital assets that can be transferred between accounts on the network and can be used as a form of currency or to represent other digital or physical assets. The fungible token shows data on the total ft transfers in your shard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FT tokens are digital assets that can be transferred between accounts on the network and can be used as a form of currency or to represent other digital or physical assets. The fungible token shows data on the total fungible token transfers in your shard. 
```

![](../../static/img/ft_token.png)

> By clicking on any of the blocks, you'll have both an overview of the transaction and contract information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By clicking on any of the fungible tokens, you'll have both an overview of the transaction and contract information.
```
probably

- The number of transactions occured on that account
- The amount of storage used
- The native account balance currently on the account
- The amount of validator stake used
- The transactio hash details
- The total amount of fungible tokens the account has
- The total amount of non fungible tokens the account has

For the contract information: 
- Created At
- Locked
- Last Update
- Transaction Hash
- Code Hash
- Holders
- Volume
- All Transfers

![](../../static/img/ft_overview.png)

## Non-Fungible tokens

> NFT tokens are digital assets are unique digital assets that are not interchangeable and represent ownership or proof of authenticity of a specific asset. The non-fungible token shows data on the total nft transfers in your shard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NFT tokens are unique digital assets that are not interchangeable and represent ownership or proof of authenticity of a specific asset. The non-fungible token shows data on the total nft transfers in your shard. 
```

> NFT tokens are digital assets are unique digital assets that are not interchangeable and represent ownership or proof of authenticity of a specific asset. The non-fungible token shows data on the total nft transfers in your shard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NFT tokens are digital assets are unique digital assets that are not interchangeable and represent ownership or proof of authenticity of a specific asset. The non-fungible token page shows data on the total nft transfers in your shard. 
```
